feat(docs): advanced features for 5.0 (#1180)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/advanced/retained.md

EMQX Broker enables the of retaining messages by default. You can modify `mqtt.retain_available` to `false` in  `etc/emqx.conf` to disable retaining messages. If the EMQX Broker receives a retained message when the feature is disabled it will return the DISCONNECT packet with a reason code of 0x9A (retained message is not supported).

## Flow control

The message read and deliver rate can be controlled. When a client subscribes to a wildcard topic, many retained messages may be loaded. If you don't want these message to be loaded into the memory all at once, you can use `retainer.flow_control` options to control this behaviour. The processing flow is as follows:
1. Load `batch_read_number` of retained message from storage
2. Deliver `batch_deliver_number` of messages
3. Repeat, until all retianed messages are delivered

## Configuration

> EMQX Broker's retained message feature is implemented by the `emqx_retainer` plugin, which is enabled by default. By modifying the configuration of the ` emqx_retainer` plugin you can adjust the storage location of the retained messages in EMQX Broker, adjust the number of preserved retained messages and the maximum length of Payload, and adjust the expiration time of retained messages. For more information about the EMQX Broker plug-in, see [plugin](./plugins.md).

Reviewer: emqx_retainer is no longer a plugin, but a built-in feature.
```suggestion
EMQX has the retainer enabled by default. By modifying the configuration in the `retainer` namespace, you can adjust the storage location of the retained messages in EMQX Broker, adjust the number of preserved retained messages and the size limit of the messages, and adjust the expiration time of retained messages. 
```

| retainer.flow_control.batch_deliver_number | integer  | from 0 to 1000              | 0             | The number of retained messages that can be delivered in one batch. Note that if this value is too big, it may cause performance issues.                                                                                                                     |
| retainer.backend.storage_type              | enum     | `ram`, `disc`               | `ram`         | ram: only stored in memory; <br /> disc: stored in memory and hard disk.                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| retainer.backend.max_retained_messages     | integer  | \>= 0                       | 1             | The maximum number of retained messages, and 0 means no limit. After the number of retained messages exceeds the maximum limit, you can replace the existing retained messages, but cannot store retained messages for new topics.                           |

::: tip

> EMQX Enterprise can store retained messages in various external databases

Reviewer: remove this.
because 5.0 enterprise will likely not support this feaure

EMQX Broker enables the of retaining messages by default. You can modify `mqtt.retain_available` to `false` in  `etc/emqx.conf` to disable retaining messages. If the EMQX Broker receives a retained message when the feature is disabled it will return the DISCONNECT packet with a reason code of 0x9A (retained message is not supported).

## Flow control

> The message read and deliver flow rate control. When a client subscribes to a wildcard topic, many retained messages may be loaded. If you don't want these message to be loaded into the memory all at once, you can use `retainer.flow_control` options to control this behaviour. The processing flow:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The message read and deliver flow rate control. When a client subscribes to a wildcard topic, many retained messages may be loaded. If you don't want these message to be loaded into the memory all at once, you can use `retainer.flow_control` options to control this behaviour. The processing flow is as follows:
```

> The message read and deliver flow rate control. When a client subscribes to a wildcard topic, many retained messages may be loaded. If you don't want these message to be loaded into the memory all at once, you can use `retainer.flow_control` options to control this behaviour. The processing flow is as follows:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The message read and deliver rate can be controlled. When a client subscribes to a wildcard topic, many retained messages may be loaded. If you don't want these message to be loaded into the memory all at once, you can use `retainer.flow_control` options to control this behaviour. The processing flow is as follows:
```

```
load batch_read_number retained message from storage ->
  deliver batch_deliver_number of messages ->
  repeat this, until all retianed messages are delivered

> ```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: maybe convert this into a numbered list of steps, or convert to a diagram?

## Configuration

> EMQX Broker's retained message feature is implemented by the `emqx_retainer` plugin, which is enabled by default. By modifying the configuration of the ` emqx_retainer` plugin, you can adjust the storage location of the retained messages in EMQX Broker, adjust the number of preserved retained messages and the maximum length of Payload, and adjust the expiration time of retained messages. For more information about the EMQX Broker plug-in, see [plugin](./plugins.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
EMQX Broker's retained message feature is implemented by the `emqx_retainer` plugin, which is enabled by default. By modifying the configuration of the ` emqx_retainer` plugin you can adjust the storage location of the retained messages in EMQX Broker, adjust the number of preserved retained messages and the maximum length of Payload, and adjust the expiration time of retained messages. For more information about the EMQX Broker plug-in, see [plugin](./plugins.md).
```

The `emqx_retainer` plugin is enabled by default, and the configuration path of the plugin is `etc/plugins/emqx_retainer.conf`.

> | Configuration item                         | Type     | Optional value             | Default value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: It looks like "Optional value" would be more like "Possible values"?  "Optional value" gives me the impression that this column would have only true/false values to indicate if the line is optional.  :thinking:

Author: ```suggestion
| Configuration item                         | Type     | Possible values             | Default value | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
```

| ------------------------------------------ | -------- | -------------------------- | ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| retainer.enable                            | boolean  | `false`, `true`            | `true`        | Enables retainer plugin                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

> | retainer.msg_clear_interval                | time     |                            | `0s`          | Periodic interval for cleaning up expired messages, .and 0 means never expire.                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| retainer.msg_clear_interval                | time     |                            | `0s`          | Periodic interval for cleaning up expired messages, and 0 means never expire.                                                                                                                                                     |
```

> | retainer.msg_clear_interval                | time     |                            | `0s`          | Periodic interval for cleaning up expired messages, and 0 means never expire.                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer 3: How does this interact with the expiration intervals from PUBLISH packets?

Author: Hmm. I'll need to check this

Author: Timeout which occurs first, removes the message from retainment

Reviewer 3: Sorry let me be specific. If you set 0 so that there is no interval check, what happens with messages that set an explicit interval? Are they ignored as well? Does an explicit interval sent with a message still cause it to be expired even if this is set to 0?

| retainer.msg_expiry_interval               | time     |                            | `0s`          | Message retention time. 0 means message will never be expired. If the message expiration interval is set in the PUBLISH packet, the message expiration interval in the PUBLISH packet shall prevail.                               |

> | retainer.max_payload_size                  | bytesize |                            | `1MB`         | Retain the maximum Payload value of the message. After the Payload value exceeds the maximum value, the EMQX broker will treat the retained reserved message as a normal message.                                                  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| retainer.max_payload_size                  | bytesize |                            | `1MB`         | Retain messages with a Payload size less than the configured value. If the bytesize of the Payload exceeds the maximum value, the EMQX broker will treat the retained reserved message as a normal message.                                                  |
```

| retainer.stop_publish_clear_msg            | boolean  | `false`, `true`            | `false`       | When the retained flag of the PUBLISH message is set and Payload is empty, whether to continue to publish the message.                                                                                                             |

> | retainer.flow_control.batch_read_number    | integer  |                            | 0             | The messages batch number per read from storage. 0 means no limit.                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| retainer.flow_control.batch_read_number    | integer  |                            | 0             | How many messages to read from storage in a single batch. 0 means no limit.                                                                                                                                                                 |
```

> | retainer.flow_control.batch_deliver_number | integer  | from 0 to 1000             | 0             | The number of retained message can be delivered per batch. Note that if this value is too large, it may cause difficulty in applying for the token of deliver.                                                                     |

Reviewer 2: I didn't quite understand the last sentence:

> Note that if this value is too large, it may cause difficulty in applying for the token of deliver.

What means to apply for the token of delivery?

> | retainer.backend.storage_type              | enum     | `ram`, `disc` | `ram`         |ram: only stored in memory; <br /> disc: stored in memory and hard disk.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| retainer.backend.storage_type              | enum     | `ram`, `disc` | `ram`         | ram: only stored in memory; <br /> disc: stored in memory and hard disk.|
```

> | retainer.backend.max_retained_messages     | integer  | \>= 0                      | 1             | The maximum number of retained messages, and 0 means no limit. After the number of retained messages exceeds the maximum limit, you can replace the existing retained messages, but cannot store retained messages for new topics. |

Reviewer 3: Clarification on this point. Does this mean that topics that have retained messages will replace the ones they have in a FIFO fashion, but that no new topics will start retaining messages?

Author: Yep
